# Stock Market Investing

Growing up, the idea of putting money into the stock market sounded to
me like risky business. Any time there was an economic downturn, the
news would report how everyone was losing all of their money.

Plus, the stock market made me think of important-looking men in suits
shouting and running around in New York City. It didn’t seem relevant
to me nor my rural, working class family.

Imagine my surprise when I learned that investing in the stock market
is a good idea for the average person, _and_ that it's
particularly important for anyone planning to FIRE. What's more, it
turns out that there are ways to do it that are financially safe,
low-stress, and don't take much time. No suits required.

## The Wrong Way to Invest

The stock market _can_ be risky. It's risky when you try and
predict how well a single company will do. The problem with this
approach is that individual companies may do really well or really
bad, and you are always guessing how you think they will perform.

Betting on one or a few companies is the financial equivalent of
putting all of your eggs into one basket. Because of this, many people
who are FIRE'd choose not invest too much money into any one company.

When you're planning for your retirement, you want a certain level of
confidence that you won't lose all of your money. You might win it big
with risky investments, but you could also lose all of your money. And
if you do lose all of your money, then you would need to go back to
work. Nobody who is FIRE'd wants to do that.

## The Right Way To Invest

Instead of picking one or a handful of companies to invest in, it is
better to invest in _every_ company in the stock market. The
reason is because on average, all of the companies in the stock market
together grow in value by about 7% from year to year (not accounting
for [inflation](/guides/inflation)).

You may be surprised to learn that this number even factors in huge
economic recessions like the Great Depression. But that’s just how
averages work. Sometimes, the stock market will do very bad, but more
often than not it does well.

## Risk Versus Volatility

Because of the average growth of the stock market, I think of
investing in the entire stock market as being low risk. What this
means is that there is a very good chance that you will earn money
when you invest in the whole stock market over a long enough period of
time.

However, the stock market is very _volatile_. This means that the
value of your investment may fluctuate a lot from day to day. If you
put in $10,000 in one day, it’s possible that it could drop in value
to $7,500 overnight. When this happens, you need to stomach the
economic downturn and just leave your money alone. It may take some
time (even a few years), but history tells us that you are likely to
get your money back, and then some.

Because of the volatility of the stock market, it doesn't make sense
to put every single dollar that you have into stocks. For instance, if
you know you need to pay your rent at the end of the month, then it
wouldn't be wise to put your rent money into the stock market.
Instead, investing in the stock market makes sense for the money that
you're holding onto for long-term use, such as retirement savings.

## I'm Convinced, What's Next?

This guide is an introduction to investing in the stock market. You
should walk away from it feeling more confident that investing in the
stock market is worth looking into, especially if you're thinking
about FIRE.

As you may have guessed, there's a lot more to get into when it comes
to the stock market. How exactly does one go about investing in the
entire stock market? How do retirement portfolios account for
volatility? Future guides will answer these questions and more.
