# What is FIRE?

FIRE is an acronym that stands for "Financial Independence, Retire
Early." It's tempting to focus on the second half of the acronym, but
the first half is more important.

To be financially independent means that you don't need to work a
regular job to pay for the expenses in your life. This means you could
"retire," staying at home all day doing nothing, but most FIRE'd
people choose to do more productive things with their time.

The thing is, doing nothing would get boring quickly! FIRE'ing is
about being able to do the things you find most valuable or fun in
life.

## How does it work?

The way it works is straightforward: once you save up enough, the
earnings you make on your investments will cover all of your expenses.
Of course, actually saving up the money is where the challenge lies.

Americans aren't taught to save. Instead, we're more familiar with the
idea that the more we can buy, the happier we will be. This, in
additions to factors such as the unreasonable cost of higher
education, means that most Americans are in debt. To make matters
worse, we don't do a very good job at talking about money, so people
often feel helpless about their financial standing.

As a result of this, many Americans are not currently on a path to
FIRE. The neat thing is that FIRE is an option for many of them. The
thing holding them back is that they don't know that it exists!

## This sounds impossible

Most people don't think that FIRE'ing is possible. Or maybe it is, but
not for them. People who feel this way will never FIRE. If this is
you, I encourage you to open your mind for a moment and consider the
possibility that it _is_ an option for you. Who knows, you might
learn something new.

## Hearth

That's where this website comes in. This website has guides and
information to help you learn about FIRE, to get started with FIRE,
and tools to help you live a successful FIRE'd life.
